{{2014_MLG_Anaheim_Tabs|This=8}}
{{DISPLAYTITLE:MLG Anaheim Rules}}
On this page is a sample of the rules for the event. A full listing of rules for MLG Anaheim can be found [http://www.majorleaguegaming.com/competitions/66#event_166_rules here].

==General Rules==

* Players who are 5 minutes late for a match forfeit the first game. Players who are 10 minutes late forfeit the entire match.
* Coaching is allowed between games in a match.
* Players may request that they be allowed to concede victory of a game.  Players may request that their opponent not receive a 1-Stock loss or forfeit penalty. Such requests will be decided on by the tournament director.
* No vulgar language in player tags.

==Gameplay Rules==

* Starters are Battlefield, Dream Land, Final Destination, Fountain of Dreams, and Yoshi's Story. Pokémon Stadium is the only counterpick stage.
* Items off. 4 stocks. 8 minute time limit.
* If the time limit is reached, the player with more stocks wins the game. If the number of stocks is equal, the player with the lower percentage wins the game. If the percentages are equal, the entire match will be replayed on the same stage and with the same characters.
* No hand-warmers after the match has started (i.e. between games).
* Pausing is allowed only when a character is on the spawning platform. The reason for the pause must be that the pauser wishes to resolve a controller malfunction or speak to a tournament director. Pauses not meeting these conditions will result in a 1-stock loss.
* Wobbling is legal. Wobbling when the opposing player is over 250% is not allowed (stalling) and will result in a 1-stock loss.
* Players who use a glitch that prevents gameplay from continuing as normal will forfeit the game (example: freeze glitch).
* Master Hand is apparently not explicitly banned.

==Selection rules==

* The player with the higher seed may choose his/her port first before the start of a match. In subsequent games, the loser of the previous game may choose to have ports chosen again with the player who lost the previous Game having the first choice.
* At the start of a match, players may request a blind pick of characters.
* The selection of the first stage goes like this: the higher seeded player chooses to be either Player A or Player B. Player A must veto one Stage first, then Player B must veto two Stages, and then Player A must veto one more Stage.
* After each game in a Best of 3, the player who won the previous game will be given the opportunity to veto one stage so that it can’t be chosen for the next game.  Vetoes like this will not be allowed in Best of 5 matches.
* A player's choice of stage may not be one that he/she has already won on during the match (Dave's Stupid Rule). An exception can be made if both players agree on the use of the stage.
* Picking stages/characters after a game goes like this: loser of the previous game picks the stage, winner of the previous game picks his/her character, loser of the previous game picks his/her character.
