{{DISPLAYTITLE:Apex 2014 Rules}}
{{Apex 2014 Melee Tabs |This=7}}

==General Rules==
*Items are set to off
*Stock and time are set to 4 stock and 8 minutes, respectively
*[[Wobbling]] is legal. Wobbling past 250% will be considered stalling and is not allowed.
*Double Blind: If elected
*Contest Port Priority: If elected
*Neutral Start: If elected
*[[Dave's Stupid Rule|DSR]]: Player cannot counter pick to any stage he or she has won on ever.
*Gentleman's Clause: Any stage may be played on if both players agree to it. This rule takes priority over DSR. Players may NOT agree to change the number of matches to be played.
*Forced Character Selection: Off
*Matches that time out will be determined by the remaining number of lives, then percentage of the current stock. In the event of a percentage tie, the match should be replayed in full. Sudden Death is not to be played, and will not count. A player/team may not counterpick to the stage they last won on.  This includes the first match won via stage striking.
*Pausing the game shall only be legal while either player remains upon their OWN respawn platform, and only for the purpose of summoning a tournament official or in the case of a controller malfunction. All other pauses will incur a stock loss to the player who pauses the game.
*Any coaching that happens during the match (but not in between matches) is restricted. Players who violate this rule will receive a warning (BOTH the player AND the person coaching the player) on the first attempt. Players who violate this rule after a warning will be disqualified from the event and a possible ejection from the venue.
*Players are to attend their matches at the designated times they are called. If a player is late to a match, the following rules will be applied based on the amount of time:
**5 minutes late: match loss
**10 minutes late: set loss
*These times will be strictly enforced to make sure that each player will enjoy the full event on a timely manner.

==Set Rules==
*Players select their characters. Either player may elect to Double Blind
*Stage Striking is used to determine the first stage
*The players play the first match of the set
*Prior to starting this match, either player may elect to Contest Port Priority or Neutral Start. Note: Only one of these two may be used, as both have a built in Port Selection mechanism using RPS. If there is a situation where a player would like to change which option they elected after playing the game of RPS, it is the opponent's choice to allow it. The results from the previously played game of RPS will carry over.
*Winning player of the preceding match bans a stage/stages (if applicable).
*For Best of 3 sets, each player gets 1 stage ban.
*For Best of 5 sets, there are no stage bans.
*The losing player of the preceding match picks a stage for the next match.
*The winning player of the preceding match may choose to change characters.
*The losing player of the preceding match may choose to change characters.
*The losing player of the preceding match gets first pick of port. Either player may elect for a neutral Start, but RPS will not be played to determine first pick.
*The next match is played.
*Repeat Steps 4 through 9 for all subsequent matches until the set is complete.
